6 this evening, Galatians chapter number 6, as we continue with this series of the danger
of deception.
And the reality is, it seems as if with each passing day, we are more and more convinced
of that truth that I stated at the beginning of this series several weeks ago, that we
are living in an age of deception.
We find here in Galatians chapter number 6, the portion of Scripture that we'll look at
this evening, that once again we see the verse of Scripture begin with that great statement,
be not deceived.
It's interesting because in the book of Amos, and if you want to turn back to the Old Testament,
to the prophets there, and look at the book of Amos, and I want you to consider what is
said here with regard to this prophecy that is told to us in Amos chapter number 8.
And the Bible tells us here in Amos chapter number 8 that there was going to be a famine
and it says this in Amos 8 and verse number 11, it's 11 and 12, Amos says this under the
inspiration of God, of course,
Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not
a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water.
But notice what it says, but of hearing the words of the Lord.
And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east.
They shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not find it.
It's interesting that it says at the end of verse number 11 that this famine in which
is being discussed is a famine of hearing the words of the Lord.
In 2 Timothy chapter number 4, as Paul is finishing that last letter that he would be
used of God as the human penman to write, noting, of course, that the time of his departure
was at hand, but before he gets to that, he gives a charge to Timothy.
The charge that he issues to Timothy is a charge that continues to be given to preachers
to this day, and that is this, preach the word.
But in this charge, we find that Paul also reveals to Timothy that the time will come
in verse 3 of 2 Timothy 4, when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their
own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away
their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables.
I understand that across the globe this evening, there are plenty of places in which you cannot
go to a church and hear the preaching of the word of God.
I understand that in various places of the world today that there are not Bibles available.
We just had our scripture assembly, and we heard some of the statistics from Dan Hummel
with regard to the numbers of languages that are upon the face of the earth and the limited
number of whole, complete Bibles that have been translated in those languages.
And as you begin to think about that, obviously we understand that there are places around
the globe in which they cannot hear the preaching of the word of God, they cannot find a Bible.
But I would submit to you this evening that no doubt in this area of the world, in much
of the United States of America, there are churches that are standing and proclaiming
the truth of God's word.
We find that there are fewer and fewer churches, there are a number of churches that have compromised
and been influenced by the culture and the society, but I am thankful for scores and
scores of churches across this land that are standing faithfully preaching the word of
God.
The problem is in the hearing.
The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine.
There are plenty of people today that are desiring to be entertained.
They are not desiring to go and to hear the teaching and preaching of the word of God.
They simply want to be entertained.
They simply desire to check a box, if you will, that they fulfilled their spiritual
obligations or duties, and it really is just no more than a nominal Christianity.
It's in name only.
We find that oftentimes there are people that desire the product, but they're not willing
to endure through the process.
And we find that no doubt as we would consider the warnings or the statements that are given
and you couple those two truths together from Amos 8 and from 2 Timothy 4, and I believe
as you put those two truths together that it leads to disaster.
And we find that we're living in a time when we could ask ourselves this question as we
think about this age of deception in which we're living in and the danger of deception,
we could ask ourselves this question, why does it seem so simple to deceive so many?
I mean, honestly, we are living in an age of deception.
We encounter people every single day that are just deceived.
And we could ask ourselves, why is it that it is so simple to deceive so many people?
I believe that the answer lies in these two verses or these two passages that we've discussed
here by way of introduction, and that is because truth has been rejected.
There's a society that we're living in that has denied the existence of absolute truth.
They would seem to float the idea or to promote the concept that truth is relative, that there's
your truth and there's their truth and there's my truth and so on and so forth, but the fact
of the matter is that there is absolute truth and that is found in the Word of God.
But when truth is rejected and when error is… when truth is rejected, then deception
is very easy to creep in and it's very easy to deceive many because of an absence of truth.
As we think about this age of deception, we come again to a passage of Scripture here
in Galatians 6 where the verse of Scripture begins with, be not deceived.
Look in verse number 7 of Galatians 6.
That's a familiar verse of Scripture, and the Bible says, be not deceived.
You know, there are warnings that are issued throughout the Word of God.
I'm thankful for the warnings that God gives us.
In fact, in the book of Psalms, in the 19th Psalm, as we find that great declaration,
the law of the Lord is perfect and all that God tells us about the written Word of God,
we find that the text of Scripture in verse number 11 concludes by saying, moreover, by
them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward.
One of the ways in which Paul described the ministry that he'd been given by the Lord
in Colossians 1 was that it was not only a teaching ministry, but it was a warning ministry.
He says to the believers in Corinth, I warn you.
Why?
I warn you.
Right?
You see that there are warnings that are given, but unfortunately there are plenty of times
in which warnings are not heeded.
We find that you could look at a number of examples throughout history of those that
had been warned of impending danger, and yet they did not take heed to the warning and
were swiftly destroyed.
You ever read about some of those that were warned about the explosion at Mount St. Helens,
the impending eruption, and there were people that did not take heed and they perished in
that catastrophic event?
And we could go on and on.
There was a pastor down in the southern part of the country.
He and his wife were hurrying home after the service to tend to some things that needed
to take place, and there was a train track in between the church house and their home,
and the bars came down and the lights were flashing, and obviously a warning that there
was a train that was approaching, and yet the pastor made the decision that he could
beat the train, and he went around the guardrails that were giving the warning of a train that
was coming, and both he and his wife were killed instantly when that train destroyed
their car.
So the warning that is given, be not deceived, man, when we read those words we ought to
pay close attention, why?
Because obviously if the preface to the statement, to the truth that is going to be given is
be not deceived, then we would understand that many are deceived in this particular
matter.
As we look at the text of Scripture, I'm simply entitling the message this evening,
sowing and reaping.
Sowing and reaping, you notice that truth in verse number 7, be not deceived, God is
not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap.
We note the problem, the problem is deception, people have been deceived, people will continue
to be deceived, the warning has been given, yet the deception is very great.
We find that he begins and says, be not deceived, notice what he says, God is not mocked.
See God has established principles within His Word, He has established laws within society,
and we find here that the Scriptures tell us that there is a problem, and it's a problem
with deception.
Remember, as we've said in these several messages during this series, that there is a remedy
for deception, and that's knowing the truth.
If we know the truth, the truth is the truth.
The truth will not only set us free, but we understand that the truth will enable us to
guard against and to combat the deception that is so prevalent in our society today.
Because I know truth.
And therefore I will not be easily deceived, and we understand that as we look at the entirety
of verse 7 and 8, the context in which is given here, I believe that there's a direct
correlation to that which has been provided in Galatians 5, 16 through 26, when he speaks
about walking in the Spirit so that you would not fulfill the lust of the flesh, and then
he speaks about the works of the flesh are manifest, and he gives the description as
to how the works of the flesh are made known, and then he says, but the fruit of the Spirit
is, and he goes through the fruit of the Spirit, and as we would consider the truth in Galatians
5 as it applies to the principle that is given here in chapter 6, verses 7 and 8, we find
that this problem of deception really, it's the idea of thinking that you can get away
with sin.
You know, we understand that we live in a society, we live, sin is all around us, and
I'm thankful that as a child of God that we have been delivered from the penalty of sin,
and we have the Holy Spirit of God living within us that enables us to be delivered
from the power of sin, but we still live in this sin-cursed world, we still have this
flesh, and we still deal with temptation.
But the reality is that the potential for being deceived with regard to the context
here is that we can be deceived thinking that we can get away with sin.
Perhaps somebody would have the idea that no one will ever know.
Everyone else is doing it.
Those are statements that are made by individuals that would seek to deceive.
In fact, as we think about the truth that has been established within these verses of
Scripture, we understand that, listen, there will be people that will try to deceive us
in regard to engaging in sin.
What's the big deal?
I mean, everyone else is doing it, no one's ever going to know.
Notice what the book of Proverbs says in Proverbs 1 and verse number 10 when the wise
man Solomon, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, is speaking here, and
he says in Proverbs 1 and verse number 10,
My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.
I would say this as we consider the truth of that verse of Scripture, you can rest assured
that you will be tempted, you will be enticed to engage in sinful behavior.
When this happens, when this enticement comes, consent thou not, when that deception comes
from that individual, that, well, you have liberty.
People use that terminology.
They take the biblical truth.
In fact, here in the book of Galatians, Paul has dealt very seriously with the subject
of liberty, and he talks about liberty, and yes, we're thankful that we have liberty in
Christ, that we've been delivered from the power and bondage of sin, but liberty is not
a license to sin.
Liberty is not a license to live however I please.
Liberty is not the ability for me to just simply satisfy my flesh.
That's not liberty.
That is taking liberty out of context biblically.
In fact, in Galatians 5 and verse 13, this is for brethren.
We have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh,
but by love serve one another.
Well, we don't really have to do that anymore.
You know, the Bible was written a long time ago.
Things are different now.
I submit to you this evening that if things were different now and God didn't want us
to follow that which He had given us in His Word, that He would have given us another
word.
Amen?
Is that pretty…
I mean, it's pretty understandable that if God was changing things so you don't have
to do these things anymore, this is no longer required, this is no longer the behavior that
pleases me, that God could have given us a different word that would tell us that, right?
He's eternal.
He's omniscient.
He knows all things, but we find that He's given us a book that is perfect and complete
and it is to be our guide for living life and we find that others will seek to deceive
us.
Listen, the enemy will seek to deceive you.
You know that He is the deceiver.
You read in Revelation 20 and verse number 10, when He's cast in a lake of fire to be
tormented day and night forever and ever, it talks about the fact that He deceived them.
He's a deceiver.
He's a liar and He has been from the beginning, right?
What did He say in Genesis 3?
Yea, hath God said, ye shall not surely die.
Oh man, your eyes are going to be open, you're going to be like God.
I mean, all of these things and we find that He's a deceiver.
Remember when we first started this particular series, we talked about the fact that Eve
was deceived.
This is the oldest tool in the toolbox of Satan, that of deception.
The reality is that we can be deceived ourselves.
In 1 Corinthians 3 and verse number 8, the simple statement that is given in Scripture
where the Bible…
In verse number 18, excuse me, where the Bible says, let no man deceive himself.
Let no man deceive himself in 1 Corinthians 3 and verse number 18.
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool that he
may be wise.
And he talks about the wisdom of God and how we need God's wisdom.
Let no man deceive himself.
Listen, we're not seeking to use the world's wisdom, we're seeking to use God's wisdom.
And we need to know the Word of God and so we see the problem as we begin looking at
these verses of Scripture in Galatians 6, verses 7 and 8, that the problem is deception.
Be not deceived.
Then God gives us this principle, really principles that are provided to us within the remainder
of verse 7 and verse number 8.
This principle or these principles that are given, we've used the title this evening,
sowing and reaping, and we'd understand that this law, if you will, is a self-evident principle
or law that is revealed and observable in nature.
We see it all around us, this law of sowing and reaping, right?
I mean, Dean gave me some peppers on Sunday.
How did he get those peppers?
Well, he planted some seeds or he planted a plant that had been germinated from some
seeds and he put that and he nourished that and he took care of that and then it produced
fruit.
It provided a harvest.
We understand it's very simple to observe and understand the truth of sowing and reaping.
We know that here in this text of Scriptures, we would think about the natural world and
the laws that we see in the world.
When Dean gave me those peppers, it's because he planted pepper plants or pepper seeds.
He did not plant tomato seeds or tomato plants and get peppers, right?
You plant tomatoes, you expect to get tomatoes.
You plant peppers, you expect to get peppers.
You plant apple trees, you expect to get apples.
It's pretty simple.
We see it observed in nature, but really the context is not dealing with the law in
nature though that is observable and helps us to understand the truth that has been given,
but we find that this is given to us with regard to the spiritual world.
The Bible says, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
Notice in verse 8, for he that soweth, it begins with a negative example, he that soweth
to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption.
Remember I mentioned the truth of Galatians 5 verses 16 through 26 a moment ago and how
that there's a correlation between that portion of Scripture and this truth that is given
to us in Galatians 6 verses 7 and 8.
When he's talking about the flesh lusteth against the spirit and this whole process
of crucifying the flesh that is mentioned back in Galatians 2 in verse number 20, and
so I am to die daily, I'm to crucify the flesh as Paul says in Galatians 2.20, but we find
here that it is possible for us to sow to the flesh.
The Bible says that he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh, what does it say?
Reap corruption.
That doesn't sound very good, does it?
That's not the fruit that we want in our lives.
That's not the harvest that we desire.
That's not what we desire in our lives, but we find that the principle is given to us
when we think about the spiritual world, the negative aspect in verse number 8, that he
that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, but I'm thankful for this
but in Scripture where the Bible gives us this change in direction.
He says, but he that soweth to the spirit, these are good seeds that are being planted,
and it says, but he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting,
and we understand the benefit here and the truth that is given.
We understand everlasting life is the gift of God with regard to salvation, and it says
here that he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting, and we
understand the benefit here and the truth that is given.
We understand everlasting life is the gift of God with regard to salvation, and we understand
shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting." I believe the idea within
the verse of Scripture, when you make the contrast between that which is the
result of sowing to the flesh being corruption, that which is sowing to the
Spirit, you'll reap life everlasting, that good fruit, that reward.
Remember in Galatians 5 and verse number 22, but the fruit of the Spirit is love,
joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance.
Against such there is no law. I mean that is a good harvest, that is a
good yield, that's something that we should desire in our lives. As we think
about this truth that is provided to us here and we consider the warning that
precedes the truth that is given, we must take heed to the warning, but we
give some thought to this truth of sowing and reaping. The reality is that
often in our lives, and you see it in nature and it's true also in our lives,
is that you reap more than you sow. You reap more than you sow. In fact, I was
considering as I was making some preparation for the lesson this evening
and considering these truths with regard to sowing and reaping, I did a quick
internet search. I am not a farmer, I am not the son of a farmer. My brother asked
me the other day if I wanted to buy a farm, and I thought, man, you got how many
years left in the Marine Corps, you want to buy a farm together so I can do some
work or what? What's going on here, right? And Julianna said, I'm out, I don't want
anything to do with a farm, but the reality is I'm not a farmer, so I don't
know, and I just did a quick internet search, and if you want to plant some
corn and you want to have a harvest of corn, they say that in each hole you put
two to three seeds. And you really only need one, but they say to put two or
three seeds, and as you put those two or three seeds, then you will have a corn
stalk that should grow with all of the right care and so on and so forth, and
that stalk of corn will have two to four ears of corn on average on that single
stalk. And they say that each ear of corn has approximately 600 kernels. So you
just do some quick math from a couple of seeds, a couple of kernels, even on the
low end of only two ears of corn being on that single stalk, you use on the high
end three kernels and you get 1,200. Or you get three and you get 2,400. Typically
you sow, excuse me, you reap more than you sow. You reap more than you sow. We see
that in nature, but oftentimes we don't really allow the truth of nature to
impact us when we think about the spiritual aspect of it. I mentioned
Psalm 19 a few moments ago, and you think about the law of the Lord is perfect
enduring forever and all of that context there in verses 10 through, excuse me, I
think it's 7 through 11, but really before you get to that, you know what the
Bible says in Psalm 19? The heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament
showeth forth his handiwork. You know, many times when the Lord Jesus Christ
walked upon the earth, he used parables, and he would reference various things
that people could see in nature that they could understand, and he would then
give them from that natural occurrence, he would provide them with a spiritual
truth. And so when we think about this principle, this law of sowing and reaping,
we understand even by nature that you reap more than you sow, and yet for some
reason when we think about the life that we're living and we think about
our walk with God and we consider the thought of this passage of
Scripture, and there are many that have been deceived thinking that they can
get away with it, that God's okay with sin, that whatever the thoughts
are, whoever, everybody is doing it, this is the acceptable thing that we can do
now, so on and so forth, we fail to recognize that often you reap more than
you sow. Say, man, why am I dealing with all of these things? Why is all of this
stuff going on? You reap more than you sow. I know that I've used the quote
before that many times, I don't remember who it was, a preacher of yesteryear, he
said that too many of God's people are sowing seeds to the flesh six days a
week and they show up to church on Sunday and pray for crop failure. And
that's just not going to happen. Why? Because God has given a principle or a
law. And we think about this truth this evening, see what happens sometimes is we
don't, and it leads me to my final thought tonight, and here's the thought
and I'll mention what I was gonna say, oftentimes reaping isn't immediate, right?
We see that in nature, but we see it spiritually as well. And sometimes what
happens with this thing of deception is we we get deceived by the enemy or by
someone else or even perhaps by our own self-deception and we engage in
something that we know we ought not engage in, we think that we can get away
with sin, and then God doesn't like strike us with a bolt of lightning and
things don't just fall apart immediately, and then the deception continues to
having this thought, well, I guess God's okay with it. Because nothing happened. Is
God ever okay with sin? No. God is never okay with sin. And what happens is we
minimize the truth that God has given us in his Word that he's long-suffering. We
minimize the truth that he's given us in his Word that he's loving and he's
gracious and he's kind and he's slow to wrath. Aren't you thankful for that? Amen?
Remember the disciples? They were dealing with some problems. They said,
you want us to call down fire from heaven like Elijah did? I mean, they're
ready to just, you ever feel like you could do that? Amen? He said, man, if I were
God, I'd smite these people. God is long-suffering. He is slow to wrath. And
what happens, that thing of deception creeps in. That's why he says, be not
deceived. Because we sow to the flesh and nothing really happens. We don't see any
immediate consequences and the the devil gets in there and continues to raise
the level of deception. We think, well, this must be okay. God must be okay with
this. God is never okay with it. See, often reaping isn't immediate. This is true in
the natural world. Dean, you gave me pepper, you didn't give the peppers to Holly, but
you gave the peppers to Holly on Sunday. When did you plant those plants? Roughly.
When? I said roughly. He said, bam, June 14th. And so, June 14th, it was October 24th
on Sunday when he gave me those plants. And so, three months and ten days, about a
hundred days, roughly, that it took from the time of planting to the time of
reaping. And that's just a simple pepper plant. Do you know that the average apple
tree, the standard size apple tree, can take up to eight years to bear fruit? Up to eight
years to bear fruit. And we could just go on and on with examples from nature and we
could look at all of these things and say, man, look at how long this stuff takes. I
mean, listen, it would be foolish of me, of the individual that wants to have a garden
in his backyard and just have a few fresh vegetables, or even of the farmer of the thousand
acres of farmland that he has to sow the seed on a Monday and go out on Tuesday expecting
to have a harvest. It just would be nonsense, right? You sit down at the local establishment,
whatever, there's a breakfast place or a general store, and you sit around. And on
Monday morning, hey, what are you guys doing today? I'm planting my crops. I'm getting
the seed in the ground. Oh, man, it's wonderful. It's that time of year, you know, so on and
so forth. And then Tuesday morning, you're at the same meeting place. Boys, what are
you doing today? I'm going to go get my harvest. They'd all look at the individual like he
was nuts. It just doesn't happen that way. Now, the reality is that sometimes spiritually
there is reaping right away. But oftentimes, the reaping isn't immediate. And so when we
understand these truths that God gives us through nature, coupled with the biblical
principles that He provides us with here in His Word, we must take heed to that warning
that begins in verse number seven, be not deceived. I don't want to be deceived into
thinking that I can sow to my flesh, and that there's not going to be any consequences
of that. It's just going to be an isolated incident. It's just going to be an isolated
situation, and there are going to be no other consequences. No, you sow to the flesh. According
to what we read in verse number eight, of the flesh, you shall reap corruption. We need
to plant, sow good seeds. He that soweth to the Spirit, planting and sowing the good seeds.
the good seeds and taking heed to the Word of God that He's provided us with and understanding
that there are some things.
Again, I made the statement last week when we looked at the subject matter of spiritual
distancing and looking at that truth from 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 33 that evil communications
corrupt good manners.
The reality is that God has given us truths within His Word that we need to know and we
need to apply so that we can say, no, I'm not going to be deceived in this matter.
The enemy is not going to deceive me, the other people aren't going to deceive me, I'm
not going to deceive myself, I am going to stand upon the truth of the Word of God.
I remember as a lost teenager making the statement once to my dad, and he's here, I say once,
I only remember making the statement once, I may have made it more than once, but there
was one particular occasion that stands out in my mind, I believe that I was a sophomore
in high school, and I remember approaching my parents about being able to engage in some
activity that was taking place and getting an immediate no.
What kind of deal is that?
And I replied by saying, well, everyone else is doing it.
And then the question was, okay, who?
Well, everyone, literally, I thought I was smart when I was in 10th grade, but that's
about how it recalls in my mind how that conversation went.
The reality was that I learned a valuable, I wasn't even saved.
My parents were saved, but I learned a valuable lesson on that day because I remember my dad
sitting down and telling me, just because everyone else is doing it doesn't make it
right for you to do it.
And we live in a society in which we're pumped with that ideology that, well, it's just what
everybody does.
It's just acceptable.
Nobody does that anymore, that's just, you're so outdated and you're so old school.
I desire to follow the principles that God has given me in His Word, be not deceived.
Because God is not mocked, whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap.
Biblical truth, in this age of deception, oh, that God would help us to be on guard
because there are people that are lying in wait to deceive.
Father, we love You.
We thank You for loving us.
Thank You for Your Word.
Thank You for the warning tonight, the principle that You've given us of sowing and reaping.
It's so easy for us to see it in nature.
It's so easy for us to discuss at great length the examples from nature.
God, I pray that You'd help us tonight to understand the spiritual implication of this
passage of Scripture, that You would help us to sow good seed, help us to sow to the
Spirit.
Lord, help us to walk in the Spirit, help us to know the Word of God and to apply the
Word of God in our hearts and lives, that we might be conformed to the image of Christ
and impact eternity.
Help us to be guarded against this great deception that's taking place in our society and our
world today as we live in an age of deception.
I pray that You'd bless our time of prayer.
We thank You so much for the privilege of prayer.
We thank You that You're a God who hears and answers prayer and for the opportunity to
have this prayer time in our midweek service, where as a body of believers that are assembled
together, we can engage in corporate intercessory prayer, knowing that the effectual fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
We thank You and love You, for it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.